[docs] Update deployment modes topic and graphics (#10589)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/get-started/deployment-modes.md

---
# Loki deployment modes

> Loki has many component microservices, and is designed to run as a horizontally-scalable distributed system. The Loki binary and Docker image include all of the Loki component microservices, letting you customize how you deploy Loki.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loki is a distributed system consisting of many microservices.  It also has a unique build model where all of those microservices exist within the same binary.
```

You can configure the behavior of the single binary with the `-target` command-line flag to specify which microservices will run on startup. You can further configure each of the components in the `loki.yaml` file.

> As Loki stores indexes and chunks separately, you can easily redeploy a cluster under a different mode as your needs change, with minimal or no configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Loki decouples the data it stores from the compute which ingests and queries it, you can easily redeploy a cluster under a different mode as your needs change, with minimal or no configuration changes.
```

the `-target` command-line flag and defines one of three modes of operation.
Loki has many component microservices, and is designed to run as a horizontally-scalable distributed system. The Loki binary and Docker image include all of the Loki component microservices, letting you customize how you deploy Loki.

Configuration for each deployed instance of the binary
further specifies which components it runs.
You can configure the behavior of the single binary with the `-target` command-line flag to specify which microservices will run on startup. You can further configure each of the components in the `loki.yaml` file.

Loki is designed to easily redeploy a cluster under a different mode
as your needs change,
with no configuration changes or minimal configuration changes.
As Loki stores indexes and chunks separately, you can easily redeploy a cluster under a different mode as your needs change, with minimal or no configuration changes.

## Monolithic mode

The simplest mode of operation sets `-target=all`.
This is the default target,
and it does not need to be specified.
This is monolithic mode;
it runs all of Loki’s microservice components inside a single process

> as a single binary or Docker image.

Reviewer: I'm reluctant to remove this, most of the folks using Loki in the wild run the single binary.

I think we may just want to make clear this is for low volume hobby setups or low volume installations over a fixed number of sources and small number of users.

> The scalable monolithic deployment mode can scale to several TBs of logs per day and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scalable monolithic deployment mode can scale up to a few TB of logs per day and maybe a little more, however much beyond this and the microservices approach will be advantageous for most users.
```

-- Index gateways
-- Query scheduler
-- Ruler

The scalable monolithic deployment mode requires a reverse proxy to be deployed in front of Loki, to direct client API requests to either the read or write nodes. The Loki Helm chart includes a default reverse proxy configuration, using Nginx.

## Monolithic mode

The simplest mode of operation is monolithic mode. You enable monolithic mode by setting the `-target=all` command line parameter. This mode runs all of Loki’s microservice components inside a single process as a single binary or Docker image.

![monolithic mode diagram](../monolithic-mode.png "Monolithic mode")

Monolithic mode is useful for getting started quickly to experiment with Loki, as well as for small read/write volumes of up to approximately 100GB per day.

You can horizontally scale a monolithic mode deployment to more instances by using a shared object store, and by configuring the [`ring` section]({{< relref "../configure#common" >}}) of the `loki.yaml` file to share state between all instances, but the recommendation is to use scalable monolithic mode if you need to scale your deployment.

> You can configure high availability by running two Loki instances using `memberlist_config` configuration and a shared object store. You route traffic to all the Loki instances in a round robin fashion.

Reviewer: note: you also need to enable replication_factor: 3 to get HA with Loki (this is true for SSD as well). Running multiple instances with rep factor of 1 will not give you HA.

> Query parallelization is limited by the number of instances and the setting `max_query_parallelism` which is defined in the `loki.yaml` file.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should remove this and have a dedicated section on query parallelization/performance.

max_query_parallelism is one thing you care about, but also you will care about max_concurrent, especially in the single binary.

Author: Maybe in a later PR?  I'd like to get this update in and then we can add additional content later.
